Video Captioning
and Transcript Tricks
with Melanie Hawkes.
Melanie is the video and media
assistant for the Department
of Fire and Emergency
Services in Western Australia.
As a reminder, there will be no Q&A
official during this lightning round
but please use the ideas section
to Chat with the other attendees
and Melanie is here in the Chat
and can answer your questions.
Hello,
I'm Melanie from the Department
of Fire and Emergency Services
in Western Australia .
I will be talking to you about
captioning tips and tricks
to make captioning
easier and faster.
Why captioned video content?
Because providing Captions
and a transcript of audio
and visual material is required
to pass level A of the WCAG,
web content
accessibility guidelines.
It doesn't only benefit
people with disabilities.
Many people don't have sound on when
scrolling social media for example.
They might be in a really noisy
place like a bus or a train
and they prefer to read the
Captions while they watch the video.
They may not have their headphones
on and that helps people
who are learning English as a
second language which is well.
And if you are relying
on audio captions you
may not get the
message you intended.
These are some of
my favorite bloopers
from auto English on YouTube.
Searching for lots of engine
people, should have been searching
for lost and injured people.
What laser head,
should have been what lays ahead
and BBC's Michael finds pleasure
in triple slow should be
if you see smoke or flames
please ring triple zero.
Here at the emergency
services, it's really important
that we get the message across.
It could be a matter of
saving people's lives.
But also to avoid embarrassment.
Can you imagine if you are CEO
or in our case our commissioner
was captioned in one
of these on the left
when he should have been
speaking something on the right.
It will save a lot of
embarrassment if you
actually captioned it correctly.
So how do I caption?
Well, I use YouTube.
So you've uploaded
your video in YouTube.
Now you go to subtitles on the
left, the auto English Captions
have already been generated.
So, click duplicate
and edit then continue.
I like to edit times as I go
rather than edit a block of text.
So you click edit timings,
then you start editing.
Check the words are accurate
and aligned with the audio.
You can adjust the text box on
the timeline by dragging the ends,
making it longer or shorter.
You want to break in the
natural pauses of the audio.
Hi, my name is Ronnie.
I'm with Marine rescue and
I've been a volunteer here
for about four years.
If the text boxes are side by
side and you want to combine them,
you can press the backspace key.
To split them, put the marker in
the break in between audio segments
and press enter.
It's a real time saver
doing it that way.
You should make your two
lines of text even length.
Do this by pressing
shift and enter.
And I always delete spaces
on the ends of the lines.
Here, I'm editing a three minute
video so I'll speed this up.
You need to check spelling, capital
letters add punctuation et cetera.
It's slow and time-consuming,
but it's worth it.
[VIDEO PLAYING]
Here there is a change
of speaker in the video.
It's important you know that
with the symbol of some kind.
I use two greater than
arrows before they speak.
You can use something else
as long as you're consistent.
If the speaker reappears later, I
use the symbols again plus there name
in square brackets.
Even though these two lines
appear even on the video screen,
I split them anyway.
If someone watches
this on a wider screen,
it would display differently
if you don't split them.
Never go to three lines.
Try and find a spot to
cut it if it's too long.
Always spell in the
language of your audience.
For example,
meters in Australia is M-E-T-R-E-S.
So I’ll change it from the
American spelling here.
So, that's it.
I’ve made it to the
end of the video.
Now, I go back to the
beginning and I watch it again
to make sure it's all good
and I haven't missed anything.
At the same time today,
I'll skip this part.
Right, so I’m back at the end.
I'm happy with what I've done.
So now you click publish.
Then we can delete the
auto English Captions file
and download our edited
Captions as an SRT file.
Choose a folder and click save.
That's captioning complete.
Now we can use that SRT
file to write a transcript.
Open in Notepad,
select all and copy.
Then I open this website that
converts the SRT file to text.
Paste it in at the top,
click convert at the bottom.
It strips out all the numbers
and formatting for you.
Then I like to change it to
the line measure feature here
so it's all in one paragraph.
Then we copy that output,
open up a Word document.
I'm going to open an old transcript
and save it as a new one.
Then I delete everything except the
heading and paste the transcript
and I add a title.
And then we add the details in like
the name of the person speaking,
any text on the screen,
make paragraphs, et cetera.
While listening to the
video, you might find
that you've made a mistake.
So, because we made a change
to this transcript, we have
to reflect that change in
the subtitles on YouTube.
So, you can just go edit
here and make that change.
You can also change it in the
SRT file that we downloaded.
Our video had text on the screen
at the beginning so don't forget
to add any text that your
video might have on the screen.
And there we have it.
Come to the end, don't forget to
make your document accessible,
add any headings
and that's it, complete.
Save it then as a PDF and
then we have an online portal
where we can upload these
documents on our Internet
but you can use SharePoint or
one drive or something similar.
Then copy the link and I
create a [unintelligible]
link for both files.
Copy that
and paste it into the
description box on YouTube.
That way people watching the
video can download the transcript
if they wish and you've
passed the AAA level
of WCAG disability online
full video content.
Altogether, this process
took me just over an hour
which I think is pretty good
for a three minute video.
Don't forget to save and
thanks so much for watching.
I hope I've given you some knowledge
and you'll be able to do that
on your videos from now on.